README.md, before:

# Medical Center Automation System

A comprehensive medical center management system built with .NET 10, following Clean Architecture and Domain-Driven Design principles.

## Overview

The Medical Center Automation System provides a complete solution for managing medical records, patient information, and provider interactions. It follows a three-layer architecture (Core, Infrastructure, WebApi) and implements DDD patterns for maintainability and scalability.

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Docker (Recommended - No Installation Required)

The easiest way to get started is using Docker. You only need Docker Desktop installed.

#### Prerequisites

- **Docker Desktop** - [Download](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
- **Git** - For version control

#### Step 1: Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd MedicalCenter
```

#### Step 2: Configure Environment (Optional)

Copy the example environment file and customize if needed:

```bash
# Windows (PowerShell)
Copy-Item env.example .env

# Linux/Mac
cp env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` file to customize:
- SQL Server password (`SA_PASSWORD`)
- API ports (`API_HTTP_PORT`, `API_HTTPS_PORT`)
- JWT secret key (`JWT_SECRET_KEY`)

#### Step 3: Start with Docker Compose

```bash
# First time or after code changes (rebuilds and recreates containers)
docker-compose up --build

# Or if you want to force recreate containers even if image hasn't changed
docker-compose up --build --force-recreate
```

This will:
- Build the .NET application Docker image
- Recreate containers to ensure latest code and migrations are applied
- Start SQL Server container
- Start the Web API container (waits for SQL Server to be healthy)
- Automatically run database migrations on startup
- Seed initial data (roles, system admin)

The API will be available at:
- **HTTP**: `http://localhost:5001`
- **Swagger**: `http://localhost:5001/swagger`

**Note**: The database and all tables are created automatically on first startup. Migrations run automatically when the container starts.

#### Step 4: Access the Application

Open your browser and navigate to:
```
http://localhost:5001/swagger
```

#### Default System Admin Credentials

A system administrator account is automatically seeded when the database is created. You can use these credentials to log in:

- **Email**: `sys.admin@medicalcenter.com`
- **Password**: `Admin@123!ChangeMe`

**⚠️ Important**: Change the default password in production environments.

#### Stop the Application

```bash
# Stop containers (keeps data)
docker-compose stop

# Stop and remove containers (keeps data)
docker-compose down

# Stop and remove containers and volumes (⚠️ deletes data)
docker-compose down -v
```

#### View Logs

```bash
# View all logs
docker-compose logs

# Follow logs
docker-compose logs -f

# View specific service logs
docker-compose logs webapi
docker-compose logs sqlserver
```

---

### Option 2: Manual Setup (Requires .NET SDK and SQL Server)

### Prerequisites

- **.NET 10 SDK** - [Download](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- **SQL Server** - Local instance or SQL Server Express
- **Git** - For version control

### Step 1: Clone and Build

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd MedicalCenter

# Restore dependencies
dotnet restore

# Build the solution
dotnet build
```

### Step 2: Configure Database

Update the connection string in `src/MedicalCenter.WebApi/appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Server=localhost;Database=MedicalCenter;Trusted_Connection=true;TrustServerCertificate=true;"
  }
}
```

### Step 3: Apply Database Migrations

```bash
# Install EF Core tools (if not already installed)
dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef

# Apply migrations (creates database and all tables)
dotnet ef database update --project src/MedicalCenter.Infrastructure --startup-project src/MedicalCenter.WebApi
```

This creates:
- `MedicalCenter` database
- ASP.NET Core Identity tables (AspNetUsers, AspNetRoles, etc.)
- Domain entity tables (Patients, Doctors, etc.)
- RefreshToken table

### Step 4: Run the Application

```bash
# From project root
dotnet run --project src/MedicalCenter.WebApi/MedicalCenter.WebApi.csproj
```

The API will be available at:
- **HTTPS**: `https://localhost:5001`
- **HTTP**: `http://localhost:5000`

### Step 5: Access Swagger Documentation

Open your browser and navigate to:
```
https://localhost:5001/swagger
```

### Default System Admin Credentials

A system administrator account is automatically seeded when the database is created. You can use these credentials to log in:

- **Email**: `sys.admin@medicalcenter.com`
- **Password**: `Admin@123!ChangeMe`

**⚠️ Important**: Change the default password in production environments.

### Step 6: Test the API

#### Register a Patient

```bash
curl -X POST https://localhost:5001/auth/patients \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "fullName": "John Doe",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com",
    "password": "SecurePass123!",
    "nationalId": "123456789",
    "dateOfBirth": "1990-01-01T00:00:00Z"
  }'
```

#### Login

```bash
curl -X POST https://localhost:5001/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "john.doe@example.com",
    "password": "SecurePass123!"
  }'
```

#### Use Token for Authenticated Requests

```bash
curl -X GET https://localhost:5001/patients/self \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN_HERE"
```

## Project Structure

```
MedicalCenter/
├── src/
│   ├── MedicalCenter.Core/              # Domain layer (entities, aggregates, value objects)
│   ├── MedicalCenter.Infrastructure/    # Data access & external services
│   └── MedicalCenter.WebApi/            # API endpoints & presentation
├── tests/
│   └── MedicalCenter.Core.Tests/        # Domain unit tests
└── docs/                                 # Documentation
    ├── Architecture.md                  # Architecture documentation
    ├── Features.md                      # Features documentation
    └── ImplementationPlan.md          # Implementation roadmap
```

## Technology Stack

- **.NET 10**: Runtime and framework
- **Entity Framework Core 10**: ORM
- **FastEndpoints**: API framework
- **FastEndpoints.Swagger**: OpenAPI documentation (NSwag)
- **ASP.NET Core Identity**: Authentication/Authorization
- **FluentValidation**: Request validation
- **Ardalis.Specification**: Query pattern
- **QuestPDF**: PDF generation library
- **xUnit**: Testing framework
- **FluentAssertions**: Test assertions

## Key Features

### Authentication & Authorization

- ✅ Patient self-registration
- ✅ JWT-based authentication
- ✅ Refresh token mechanism
- ✅ Role-based access control (RBAC)
- ✅ Claims-based authorization (database-only claims for privileged operations)
- ✅ Policy-based authorization

### Patient Management

- ✅ Patient aggregate with medical attributes
- ✅ Blood type management (create/update)
- ✅ Allergies, Chronic Diseases, Medications, Surgeries
- ✅ Patient self-service endpoints (records, medical attributes)
- ✅ PDF medical report generation with date filtering

### Practitioner Management

- ✅ Practitioner self-service endpoint for custom attributes
- ✅ Role-specific attribute retrieval (Doctor, HealthcareStaff, Laboratory, ImagingCenter, SystemAdmin)
- ✅ Supports all practitioner types with their unique attributes

### Medical Attributes Management

- ✅ CRUD operations for all medical attributes
- ✅ Provider-based authorization
- ✅ Comprehensive validation

### Medical Records

- ✅ Medical record creation and management
- ✅ File attachment support (upload, download, add/remove)
- ✅ Local filesystem file storage (configurable)
- ✅ Multiple attachments per record (up to 10, configurable)
- ✅ Practitioner and patient views
- ✅ Practitioner-based authorization

### Action Logging & Audit Trail

- ✅ Queue-based background processing for action logs
- ✅ Attribute-based logging (mark endpoints with [ActionLog])
- ✅ Admin query endpoint for viewing action logs
- ✅ Fire-and-forget pattern for performance
- ✅ Success-only logging (2xx status codes)

### Admin Features

- ✅ Admin self-service endpoint for custom attributes
- ✅ User management (CRUD)
- ✅ Pagination support
- ✅ User filtering and search
- ✅ Password management

### API Features

- ✅ RESTful API design
- ✅ Swagger/OpenAPI documentation
- ✅ Pagination for list endpoints
- ✅ Comprehensive validation
- ✅ Error handling (Problem Details format)
- ✅ File upload/download support

## Documentation

- **[Architecture](docs/Architecture.md)** - Comprehensive architecture documentation
- **[Features](docs/Features.md)** - Detailed features documentation with API endpoint details, authorization policies, response examples, and enum value mappings
- **[Implementation Plan](docs/ImplementationPlan.md)** - Implementation roadmap and progress tracking

## Testing

### Run Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
dotnet test

# Run tests for a specific project
dotnet test tests/MedicalCenter.Core.Tests

# Run tests with coverage
dotnet test --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage"
```

### Test Coverage

- **210 domain unit tests** passing
- Tests follow classical school approach (behavior-focused)
- AAA pattern (Arrange, Act, Assert)

## Configuration

### JWT Settings

Configure in `src/MedicalCenter.WebApi/appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "JwtSettings": {
    "SecretKey": "YourSuperSecretKeyThatIsAtLeast32CharactersLong!",
    "Issuer": "MedicalCenter",
    "Audience": "MedicalCenter",
    "ExpirationInMinutes": 60,
    "RefreshTokenExpirationInDays": 7
  }
}
```

**⚠️ Important**: Change the `SecretKey` in production to a secure, randomly generated key.

### File Storage Settings

Configure in `src/MedicalCenter.WebApi/appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "FileStorage": {
    "Path": "./attachments",
    "MaxFileSizeBytes": 10485760,
    "MaxAttachmentsPerRecord": 10,
    "AllowedContentTypes": [
      "application/pdf",
      "image/jpeg",
      "image/png",
      "image/jpg",
      "application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document",
      "application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheet",
      "application/msword",
      "application/vnd.ms-excel"
    ]
  }
}
```

**Note**: The `Path` is relative to the application's working directory. In Docker, this will be inside the container. For production, consider using absolute paths or cloud storage.

### Password Requirements

- Minimum 8 characters
- At least one digit
- At least one lowercase letter
- At least one uppercase letter
- At least one non-alphanumeric character

## Development

### Coding Patterns

This project follows patterns from the [Ardalis Clean Architecture template](https://github.com/ardalis/CleanArchitecture).

### Key Architectural Decisions

- **Generic Repository Pattern**: Single `IRepository<T>` for aggregate roots (in SharedKernel/)
- **Specification Pattern**: Encapsulates complex queries
- **Query Services**: For optimized read operations (practitioners, users) - interfaces in Queries/
- **Domain Organization**: Organized following DDD principles
  - DDD building blocks (BaseEntity, ValueObject, IAggregateRoot) in `Abstractions/`
  - Cross-cutting technical concerns (Result pattern, Pagination) in `Primitives/`
  - Shared domain concepts (User, Repository, Domain Events) in `SharedKernel/`
  - Aggregate-specific types (enums, value objects, entities, specifications) within their aggregates
- **IAuditableEntity Interface**: Opt-in audit tracking via EF Core interceptor
- **Result Pattern**: For operation outcomes without exceptions (in Primitives/)
- **Pagination Pattern**: Standardized paginated responses (in Primitives/Pagination/)
- **Time Handling Pattern**: `IDateTimeProvider` for unified time access and testability (in Services/)

## Implementation Status

- ✅ **Phase 1**: Solution Scaffolding & Git Setup
- ✅ **Phase 2**: Core Foundation & Base Classes
- ✅ **Phase 2.1**: Core Layer Reorganization (DDD-aligned structure: Abstractions/, Primitives/, SharedKernel/, Queries/, organized Aggregates/)
- ✅ **Phase 3**: Infrastructure Foundation
- ✅ **Phase 4**: Identity System Foundation
- ✅ **Phase 5**: Patient Aggregate & Medical Attributes
- ✅ **Phase 6**: Medical Records (complete)
- 🔄 **Phase 7**: Query Services & Provider Lookups (Core query services complete: UserQueryService, MedicalRecordQueryService)
- ✅ **Phase 8**: Action Logging & Audit Trail
- 🔄 **Phase 10**: Admin Features (User management complete)
- 🔄 **Phase 11**: Patient Self-Service Features (Basic features complete)
- ✅ **Phase 12**: Dockerization

See [ImplementationPlan.md](docs/ImplementationPlan.md) for detailed progress and future enhancements.

## Troubleshooting

### Docker Issues

#### Containers Won't Start

1. **Check Docker is running**:
   ```bash
   docker ps
   ```

2. **View container logs**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose logs
   ```

3. **Rebuild containers**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

#### Database Connection Issues in Docker

1. **Check SQL Server container is healthy**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose ps
   ```

2. **Verify connection string** uses service name `sqlserver` (not `localhost`)

3. **Check SQL Server logs**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose logs sqlserver
   ```

4. **Restart services**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose restart
   ```

#### Migration Errors in Docker

1. **Check application logs** for migration errors:
   ```bash
   docker-compose logs webapi
   ```

2. **Manually run migrations** (if needed):
   ```bash
   docker-compose exec webapi dotnet ef database update --project /src/src/MedicalCenter.Infrastructure --startup-project /src/src/MedicalCenter.WebApi
   ```

#### Port Conflicts

If ports 5000, 5001, or 1433 are already in use:

1. **Update `.env` file** with different ports:
   ```env
   API_HTTP_PORT=5002
   API_HTTPS_PORT=5003
   SQL_SERVER_PORT=1434
   ```

2. **Restart containers**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose down
   docker-compose up
   ```

#### Clean Up Docker Resources

```bash
# Stop and remove containers (keeps volumes)
docker-compose down

# Stop and remove containers and volumes (⚠️ deletes all data)
docker-compose down -v

# Remove all Docker resources (⚠️ removes all containers, images, volumes)
docker system prune -a --volumes
```

### Manual Setup Issues

#### Database Connection Issues

1. **Verify SQL Server is running**
2. **Check connection string** in `appsettings.json`
3. **Create database manually** if needed:
   ```sql
   CREATE DATABASE MedicalCenter;
   ```

#### Port Already in Use

The application will automatically use another port. Check the console output for the actual port number.

#### Migration Errors

1. **Check database exists**
2. **Drop and recreate** (⚠️ **WARNING**: This deletes all data):
   ```bash
   dotnet ef database drop --project src/MedicalCenter.Infrastructure --startup-project src/MedicalCenter.WebApi
   dotnet ef database update --project src/MedicalCenter.Infrastructure --startup-project src/MedicalCenter.WebApi
   ```

## License

[Add your license here]

## Contributing

[Add contributing guidelines here]

Commit message:

feat: add patient lookup endpoints for practitioners
- Introduced new endpoints `GET /patients` for listing patients with pagination and filtering options, and `GET /patients/{patientId}` for retrieving a specific patient by ID.
- Implemented authorization policy `CanViewPatients` to restrict access to authorized roles (Doctor, HealthcareStaff, LabUser, ImagingUser, SystemAdmin).
- Updated documentation in README.md, Features.md, and Architecture.md to reflect these new capabilities and their usage.

These changes enhance the API's functionality by allowing practitioners to efficiently access and manage patient information.

README.md, after:

# Medical Center Automation System

A comprehensive medical center management system built with .NET 10, following Clean Architecture and Domain-Driven Design principles.

## Overview

The Medical Center Automation System provides a complete solution for managing medical records, patient information, and provider interactions. It follows a three-layer architecture (Core, Infrastructure, WebApi) and implements DDD patterns for maintainability and scalability.

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Docker (Recommended - No Installation Required)

The easiest way to get started is using Docker. You only need Docker Desktop installed.

#### Prerequisites

- **Docker Desktop** - [Download](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
- **Git** - For version control

#### Step 1: Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd MedicalCenter
```

#### Step 2: Configure Environment (Optional)

Copy the example environment file and customize if needed:

```bash
# Windows (PowerShell)
Copy-Item env.example .env

# Linux/Mac
cp env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` file to customize:
- SQL Server password (`SA_PASSWORD`)
- API ports (`API_HTTP_PORT`, `API_HTTPS_PORT`)
- JWT secret key (`JWT_SECRET_KEY`)

#### Step 3: Start with Docker Compose

```bash
# First time or after code changes (rebuilds and recreates containers)
docker-compose up --build

# Or if you want to force recreate containers even if image hasn't changed
docker-compose up --build --force-recreate
```

This will:
- Build the .NET application Docker image
- Recreate containers to ensure latest code and migrations are applied
- Start SQL Server container
- Start the Web API container (waits for SQL Server to be healthy)
- Automatically run database migrations on startup
- Seed initial data (roles, system admin)

The API will be available at:
- **HTTP**: `http://localhost:5001`
- **Swagger**: `http://localhost:5001/swagger`

**Note**: The database and all tables are created automatically on first startup. Migrations run automatically when the container starts.

#### Step 4: Access the Application

Open your browser and navigate to:
```
http://localhost:5001/swagger
```

#### Default System Admin Credentials

A system administrator account is automatically seeded when the database is created. You can use these credentials to log in:

- **Email**: `sys.admin@medicalcenter.com`
- **Password**: `Admin@123!ChangeMe`

**⚠️ Important**: Change the default password in production environments.

#### Stop the Application

```bash
# Stop containers (keeps data)
docker-compose stop

# Stop and remove containers (keeps data)
docker-compose down

# Stop and remove containers and volumes (⚠️ deletes data)
docker-compose down -v
```

#### View Logs

```bash
# View all logs
docker-compose logs

# Follow logs
docker-compose logs -f

# View specific service logs
docker-compose logs webapi
docker-compose logs sqlserver
```

---

### Option 2: Manual Setup (Requires .NET SDK and SQL Server)

### Prerequisites

- **.NET 10 SDK** - [Download](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- **SQL Server** - Local instance or SQL Server Express
- **Git** - For version control

### Step 1: Clone and Build

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd MedicalCenter

# Restore dependencies
dotnet restore

# Build the solution
dotnet build
```

### Step 2: Configure Database

Update the connection string in `src/MedicalCenter.WebApi/appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Server=localhost;Database=MedicalCenter;Trusted_Connection=true;TrustServerCertificate=true;"
  }
}
```

### Step 3: Apply Database Migrations

```bash
# Install EF Core tools (if not already installed)
dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef

# Apply migrations (creates database and all tables)
dotnet ef database update --project src/MedicalCenter.Infrastructure --startup-project src/MedicalCenter.WebApi
```

This creates:
- `MedicalCenter` database
- ASP.NET Core Identity tables (AspNetUsers, AspNetRoles, etc.)
- Domain entity tables (Patients, Doctors, etc.)
- RefreshToken table

### Step 4: Run the Application

```bash
# From project root
dotnet run --project src/MedicalCenter.WebApi/MedicalCenter.WebApi.csproj
```

The API will be available at:
- **HTTPS**: `https://localhost:5001`
- **HTTP**: `http://localhost:5000`

### Step 5: Access Swagger Documentation

Open your browser and navigate to:
```
https://localhost:5001/swagger
```

### Default System Admin Credentials

A system administrator account is automatically seeded when the database is created. You can use these credentials to log in:

- **Email**: `sys.admin@medicalcenter.com`
- **Password**: `Admin@123!ChangeMe`

**⚠️ Important**: Change the default password in production environments.

### Step 6: Test the API

#### Register a Patient

```bash
curl -X POST https://localhost:5001/auth/patients \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "fullName": "John Doe",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com",
    "password": "SecurePass123!",
    "nationalId": "123456789",
    "dateOfBirth": "1990-01-01T00:00:00Z"
  }'
```

#### Login

```bash
curl -X POST https://localhost:5001/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "john.doe@example.com",
    "password": "SecurePass123!"
  }'
```

#### Use Token for Authenticated Requests

```bash
curl -X GET https://localhost:5001/patients/self \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN_HERE"
```

## Project Structure

```
MedicalCenter/
├── src/
│   ├── MedicalCenter.Core/              # Domain layer (entities, aggregates, value objects)
│   ├── MedicalCenter.Infrastructure/    # Data access & external services
│   └── MedicalCenter.WebApi/            # API endpoints & presentation
├── tests/
│   └── MedicalCenter.Core.Tests/        # Domain unit tests
└── docs/                                 # Documentation
    ├── Architecture.md                  # Architecture documentation
    ├── Features.md                      # Features documentation
    └── ImplementationPlan.md          # Implementation roadmap
```

## Technology Stack

- **.NET 10**: Runtime and framework
- **Entity Framework Core 10**: ORM
- **FastEndpoints**: API framework
- **FastEndpoints.Swagger**: OpenAPI documentation (NSwag)
- **ASP.NET Core Identity**: Authentication/Authorization
- **FluentValidation**: Request validation
- **Ardalis.Specification**: Query pattern
- **QuestPDF**: PDF generation library
- **xUnit**: Testing framework
- **FluentAssertions**: Test assertions

## Key Features

### Authentication & Authorization

- ✅ Patient self-registration
- ✅ JWT-based authentication
- ✅ Refresh token mechanism
- ✅ Role-based access control (RBAC)
- ✅ Claims-based authorization (database-only claims for privileged operations)
- ✅ Policy-based authorization

### Patient Management

- ✅ Patient aggregate with medical attributes
- ✅ Blood type management (create/update)
- ✅ Allergies, Chronic Diseases, Medications, Surgeries
- ✅ Patient self-service endpoints (records, medical attributes)
- ✅ Practitioner patient lookup endpoints (list with filters + pagination, get by ID) — active patients only for list
- ✅ PDF medical report generation with date filtering

### Practitioner Management

- ✅ Practitioner self-service endpoint for custom attributes
- ✅ Role-specific attribute retrieval (Doctor, HealthcareStaff, Laboratory, ImagingCenter, SystemAdmin)
- ✅ Supports all practitioner types with their unique attributes

### Medical Attributes Management

- ✅ CRUD operations for all medical attributes
- ✅ Provider-based authorization
- ✅ Comprehensive validation

### Medical Records

- ✅ Medical record creation and management
- ✅ File attachment support (upload, download, add/remove)
- ✅ Local filesystem file storage (configurable)
- ✅ Multiple attachments per record (up to 10, configurable)
- ✅ Practitioner and patient views
- ✅ Practitioner-based authorization

### Action Logging & Audit Trail

- ✅ Queue-based background processing for action logs
- ✅ Attribute-based logging (mark endpoints with [ActionLog])
- ✅ Admin query endpoint for viewing action logs
- ✅ Fire-and-forget pattern for performance
- ✅ Success-only logging (2xx status codes)

### Admin Features

- ✅ Admin self-service endpoint for custom attributes
- ✅ User management (CRUD)
- ✅ Pagination support
- ✅ User filtering and search
- ✅ Password management

### API Features

- ✅ RESTful API design
- ✅ Swagger/OpenAPI documentation
- ✅ Pagination for list endpoints
- ✅ Comprehensive validation
- ✅ Error handling (Problem Details format)
- ✅ File upload/download support

## Documentation

- **[Architecture](docs/Architecture.md)** - Comprehensive architecture documentation
- **[Features](docs/Features.md)** - Detailed features documentation with API endpoint details, authorization policies, response examples, and enum value mappings
- **[Implementation Plan](docs/ImplementationPlan.md)** - Implementation roadmap and progress tracking

## Testing

### Run Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
dotnet test

# Run tests for a specific project
dotnet test tests/MedicalCenter.Core.Tests

# Run tests with coverage
dotnet test --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage"
```

### Test Coverage

- **210 domain unit tests** passing
- Tests follow classical school approach (behavior-focused)
- AAA pattern (Arrange, Act, Assert)

## Configuration

### JWT Settings

Configure in `src/MedicalCenter.WebApi/appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "JwtSettings": {
    "SecretKey": "YourSuperSecretKeyThatIsAtLeast32CharactersLong!",
    "Issuer": "MedicalCenter",
    "Audience": "MedicalCenter",
    "ExpirationInMinutes": 60,
    "RefreshTokenExpirationInDays": 7
  }
}
```

**⚠️ Important**: Change the `SecretKey` in production to a secure, randomly generated key.

### File Storage Settings

Configure in `src/MedicalCenter.WebApi/appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "FileStorage": {
    "Path": "./attachments",
    "MaxFileSizeBytes": 10485760,
    "MaxAttachmentsPerRecord": 10,
    "AllowedContentTypes": [
      "application/pdf",
      "image/jpeg",
      "image/png",
      "image/jpg",
      "application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document",
      "application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheet",
      "application/msword",
      "application/vnd.ms-excel"
    ]
  }
}
```

**Note**: The `Path` is relative to the application's working directory. In Docker, this will be inside the container. For production, consider using absolute paths or cloud storage.

### Password Requirements

- Minimum 8 characters
- At least one digit
- At least one lowercase letter
- At least one uppercase letter
- At least one non-alphanumeric character

## Development

### Coding Patterns

This project follows patterns from the [Ardalis Clean Architecture template](https://github.com/ardalis/CleanArchitecture).

### Key Architectural Decisions

- **Generic Repository Pattern**: Single `IRepository<T>` for aggregate roots (in SharedKernel/)
- **Specification Pattern**: Encapsulates complex queries
- **Query Services**: For optimized read operations (practitioners, users) - interfaces in Queries/
- **Domain Organization**: Organized following DDD principles
  - DDD building blocks (BaseEntity, ValueObject, IAggregateRoot) in `Abstractions/`
  - Cross-cutting technical concerns (Result pattern, Pagination) in `Primitives/`
  - Shared domain concepts (User, Repository, Domain Events) in `SharedKernel/`
  - Aggregate-specific types (enums, value objects, entities, specifications) within their aggregates
- **IAuditableEntity Interface**: Opt-in audit tracking via EF Core interceptor
- **Result Pattern**: For operation outcomes without exceptions (in Primitives/)
- **Pagination Pattern**: Standardized paginated responses (in Primitives/Pagination/)
- **Time Handling Pattern**: `IDateTimeProvider` for unified time access and testability (in Services/)

## Implementation Status

- ✅ **Phase 1**: Solution Scaffolding & Git Setup
- ✅ **Phase 2**: Core Foundation & Base Classes
- ✅ **Phase 2.1**: Core Layer Reorganization (DDD-aligned structure: Abstractions/, Primitives/, SharedKernel/, Queries/, organized Aggregates/)
- ✅ **Phase 3**: Infrastructure Foundation
- ✅ **Phase 4**: Identity System Foundation
- ✅ **Phase 5**: Patient Aggregate & Medical Attributes
- ✅ **Phase 6**: Medical Records (complete)
- 🔄 **Phase 7**: Query Services & Provider Lookups (Core query services complete: UserQueryService, MedicalRecordQueryService)
- ✅ **Phase 8**: Action Logging & Audit Trail
- 🔄 **Phase 10**: Admin Features (User management complete)
- 🔄 **Phase 11**: Patient Self-Service Features (Basic features complete)
- ✅ **Phase 12**: Dockerization

See [ImplementationPlan.md](docs/ImplementationPlan.md) for detailed progress and future enhancements.

## Troubleshooting

### Docker Issues

#### Containers Won't Start

1. **Check Docker is running**:
   ```bash
   docker ps
   ```

2. **View container logs**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose logs
   ```

3. **Rebuild containers**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

#### Database Connection Issues in Docker

1. **Check SQL Server container is healthy**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose ps
   ```

2. **Verify connection string** uses service name `sqlserver` (not `localhost`)

3. **Check SQL Server logs**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose logs sqlserver
   ```

4. **Restart services**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose restart
   ```

#### Migration Errors in Docker

1. **Check application logs** for migration errors:
   ```bash
   docker-compose logs webapi
   ```

2. **Manually run migrations** (if needed):
   ```bash
   docker-compose exec webapi dotnet ef database update --project /src/src/MedicalCenter.Infrastructure --startup-project /src/src/MedicalCenter.WebApi
   ```

#### Port Conflicts

If ports 5000, 5001, or 1433 are already in use:

1. **Update `.env` file** with different ports:
   ```env
   API_HTTP_PORT=5002
   API_HTTPS_PORT=5003
   SQL_SERVER_PORT=1434
   ```

2. **Restart containers**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose down
   docker-compose up
   ```

#### Clean Up Docker Resources

```bash
# Stop and remove containers (keeps volumes)
docker-compose down

# Stop and remove containers and volumes (⚠️ deletes all data)
docker-compose down -v

# Remove all Docker resources (⚠️ removes all containers, images, volumes)
docker system prune -a --volumes
```

### Manual Setup Issues

#### Database Connection Issues

1. **Verify SQL Server is running**
2. **Check connection string** in `appsettings.json`
3. **Create database manually** if needed:
   ```sql
   CREATE DATABASE MedicalCenter;
   ```

#### Port Already in Use

The application will automatically use another port. Check the console output for the actual port number.

#### Migration Errors

1. **Check database exists**
2. **Drop and recreate** (⚠️ **WARNING**: This deletes all data):
   ```bash
   dotnet ef database drop --project src/MedicalCenter.Infrastructure --startup-project src/MedicalCenter.WebApi
   dotnet ef database update --project src/MedicalCenter.Infrastructure --startup-project src/MedicalCenter.WebApi
   ```

## License

[Add your license here]

## Contributing

[Add contributing guidelines here]
